README.rst, before:

===========
django_html
===========

This package represents an experimental approach to improving the way Django
outputs form widgets. At the moment, widgets created using `django.forms` are
outputted as XHTML (with self closing `/>` tags) even if the rest of your site
uses HTML. This package solves this problem by introducing two new template
tags: `{% doctype %}` and `{% field %}`.

To install, place the `django_html` directory somewhere on your python path,
then add `django_html` to `INSTALLED_APPS` in your `settings.py` file.

See the following thread on django-developers for further background
information:

    http://groups.google.com/group/django-developers/browse_thread/thread/5f3694b8a19fb9a1/

{% doctype %}
=============
The doctype tag does two things: it outputs the relevant doctype and it stores
your chosen doctype in `context._doctype`. Example usage::

	{% load html %}{% doctype "html4" %}

This will output::

	<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"
	    "http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/strict.dtd">

It will also set the context's doctype to "html4". Other template tags can then
take that in to account when deciding how they should render.

If you just want to set the doctype without outputting it to the page you can
use the optional "silent" argument::

	{% doctype "html4" silent %}

{%_field_%}
===========

The field tag allows you to output `django.forms` widgets taking the current
active doctype in to account. Django outputs XHTML form widgets by default but
this may not be appropriate if your site uses HTML 4. Here's how you output a
form widget with stock Django::

	<label for="id_name">Name:</label> {{ form.name }}

This will always output as XHTML. Here's how you use the new `{% field %}` tag::

	<label for="id_name">Name:</label> {% field form.name %}

Now the current doctype (as set using the {% doctype %} tag) will be used to
decide if XHTML self-closing tags should be used by the widget.

The field tag also lets you specify extra HTML attributes for a form field from
within your template (useful for adding things like extra classes without
having to modify the form definition in your Python code)::

	<label for="id_name">Name:</label> {% field form.name class="myclass" %}

With an HTML doctype, this will render as::

	<input type="text" name="name" id="id_name" class="myclass">

If your doctype is XHTML, you will get::

	<input type="text" name="name" id="id_name" class="myclass" />

Commit message:

Documented the new {% slash %} template tag

README.rst, after:

===========
django_html
===========

This package represents an experimental approach to improving the way Django
outputs form widgets. At the moment, widgets created using `django.forms` are
outputted as XHTML (with self closing `/>` tags) even if the rest of your site
uses HTML. This package solves this problem by introducing three new template
tags: `{% doctype %}`, `{% field %}` and `{% slash %}`.

To install, place the `django_html` directory somewhere on your python path,
then add `django_html` to `INSTALLED_APPS` in your `settings.py` file.

See the following thread on django-developers for further background
information:
    http://groups.google.com/group/django-developers/browse_thread/thread/5f3694b8a19fb9a1/

{% doctype %}
=============
The doctype tag does two things: it outputs the relevant doctype and it stores
your chosen doctype in `context._doctype`. Example usage::

	{% load html %}{% doctype "html4" %}

This will output::

	<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"
	    "http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/strict.dtd">

It will also set the context's doctype to "html4". Other template tags can 
then take that in to account when deciding how they should render.

If you just want to set the doctype without outputting it to the page you can
use the optional "silent" argument::

	{% doctype "html4" silent %}

{% field %}
===========

The field tag allows you to output `django.forms` widgets taking the current
active doctype in to account. Django outputs XHTML form widgets by default but
this may not be appropriate if your site uses HTML 4. Here's how you output a
form widget with stock Django::

	<label for="id_name">Name:</label> {{ form.name }}

This will always output as XHTML. Here's how you use the new `{% field %}` 
tag::

	<label for="id_name">Name:</label> {% field form.name %}

Now the current doctype (as set using the {% doctype %} tag) will be used to
decide if XHTML self-closing tags should be used by the widget.

The field tag also lets you specify extra HTML attributes for a form field 
from within your template (useful for adding things like extra classes without
having to modify the form definition in your Python code)::

	<label for="id_name">Name:</label> {% field form.name class="myclass" %}

With an HTML doctype, this will render as::

	<input type="text" name="name" id="id_name" class="myclass">

If your doctype is XHTML, you will get::

	<input type="text" name="name" id="id_name" class="myclass" />

{% slash %}
===========

This tag is included for completeness. It was pointed out that authors of  
reusable apps which ship with templates might want to ensure that their apps 
use the correct markup for the current doctype. In practise, this means 
outputting a self-closing tag for a small number of HTML elements. The 
`{% slash %}` tag simply outputs the string "/ " for an XHTML doctype and 
renders blank for an HTML doctype. Here are some examples::

    <br{% slash %}>
    
    <img src="/site/logo.png" alt="My site"{% slash %}>
